Raw (or untreated) data needs to be processed and analyzed so it can be used to make decisions. This process involves different steps.

In this lesson, you'll learn about the first steps in the data analysis process, starting with questions.

Some questions can be answered with a filtering query.

Example:

  SELECT name
  FROM students
  WHERE grade = 100

A lot of data lives on the Internet. Servers are computers that are always listening for requests of information.
You can request information from a database server through an API (Application Programming Interface).

There are APIs to request data from Facebook, Youtube, Wikipedia and pretty much every other platform.

There is a vast ocean of information on the web. Web scraping allows you to extract information from websites. 

Some knowledge of HTML and a programming language like Python will help you extract information you need from the internet.  

Data grouping is a powerful tool when working with large datasets. 
Grouping allows you to collect and see data in a new way, to answer more complex questions.

GROUPING DATA

GROUP BY allows you to organize similar data into categories. 
It's combined with aggregations to compute key metrics for a group of records.

  /*Groups records by genre and 
  calculates the average budget for each group*/
  SELECT genre, AVG(budget)
  FROM movies
  GROUP BY genre;

At least one field is needed to group the data. 
Remember you can use the AS keyword to give a name to the fields in the results table

  SELECT genre, AVG(budget) AS avg_budget
  FROM movies
  GROUP BY genre;

GROUP BY is most often combined with aggregation.

GROUPING AND FILTERING

In this lesson, you’ll learn to combine grouping and filtering in the same query! 
This will let you make better decisions from your data.

You can combine GROUP BY with WHERE filters. Data is filtered first, then grouped.

  SELECT genre, AVG(budget)
  FROM movies
  WHERE budget > 50
  GROUP BY genre;

HAVING allows you to filter data that has been grouped.

  SELECT genre, AVG(budget)
  FROM movies
  GROUP BY genre
  HAVING AVG(budget) > 50;

When a query contains both GROUP BY and HAVING, data is grouped first, then filtered.

